# Boahen-Summer-2015
Analysis of the Effect of Attention on Neural Variability in the Visual Cortex

This past summer, while working with in Dr. Kwabena Boahen’s neuroengineering lab at Stanford, I wrote programs to analyze patterns of neural spiking in the brain to understand how neural variability decreases during visual attention. I worked with massive amounts of spiking data. Scientists recently found that neurons in the visual cortex transition simultaneously and spontaneously from periods of high firing rates to periods of low firing rates and that a Hidden Markov Model (HMM) fits this pattern quite well. I used the HMM to study the effect of the lengths of states on neural spike time stamps data collected form the visual cortex of monkeys. My hypothesis is that longer periods of high firing rates decreases the variance of spiking and enhances the neural signal. 

I first calculated the correlation coefficient between the lengths of periods of high and low firing rates to test whether the transition between the states was truly random. I then rescaled the time intervals between spikes according to the average firing rate estimated by the HMM and calculated the Fano Factor of spiking intervals pre time-rescaling and post time-recalling. My initial results suggest these lengthened periods of high firing rates my not be the cause of the decrease in spiking variance.  However, the HMM may not represent the patterns of neural spiking accurately enough for us to understand the cause of spiking variability. I am still working on this project and plan on submitting a paper for review at the end of the year.  

